Stepped installation guide for error tracking (#12220)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/error-tracking/installation/react.mdx

---
title: React error tracking installation
---

import { Steps, Step } from 'components/Docs/Steps'

import InstallWebPackageManagers from "../../integrate/_snippets/install-web-package-managers.mdx"

> For Next.js, we recommend following the [Next.js integration guide](/docs/integrate/next-js) instead.

<Steps>

> <Step title="Installing PostHog React SDK" subtitle="Your goal in this step: Install the PostHog React SDK." badge="required">

Reviewer: There isn't such as thing as the React SDK.
```suggestion
<Step title="Installing PostHog JavaScript web SDK" subtitle="Your goal in this step: Install the JavaScript web SDK." badge="required">
```

import './index.css'
import App from './App.jsx'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'

const options = {
api_host: import.meta.env.VITE_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_HOST,
defaults: '<ph_posthog_js_defaults>',
}

createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
<StrictMode>
    <PostHogProvider apiKey={import.meta.env.VITE_PUBLIC_POSTHOG_KEY} options={options}>
    <App />
    </PostHogProvider>
</StrictMode>,
)
```

<details>
<summary>Using React Router v7?</summary>

You need to set `posthog-js` and `posthog-js/react` as external packages in your `vite.config.ts` file to avoid SSR errors.

```ts file=vite.config.ts
// ... imports

export default defineConfig({
    plugins: [tailwindcss(), reactRouter(), tsconfigPaths()],
    ssr: {
    noExternal: ['posthog-js', 'posthog-js/react']
    }
});
``` 

See our [Remix docs](/docs/libraries/remix) for more details.
</details>

</Step>

<Step checkpoint title="Verify PostHog is initialized" subtitle="Confirm you can capture events with PostHog">

Before proceeding, confirm that you can capture events with PostHog using `posthog.capture('test_event')`.

```tsx
import { usePostHog } from 'posthog-js/react'
const posthog = usePostHog()

> posthog?.capture('clicked_log_in')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
posthog?.capture('test_event')
```
